Theoretical framework for Statistical analysis

In the early years, Eagly and Chaiken (1993) categorised attitude in three components of cognitive, affective, and a behavioural domain, also known as the tripartite model. A cognitive component presents knowledge about the object; the affective component presents feelings or beliefs attributes and behaviour component comprises of a tendency towards action-behaviour component (Reid, 2006). Hence, if a person gains some knowledge about an object and develop feelings or form beliefs, it triggers his/her behaviour towards that object. Based on this model, Van Aalderen-Smeets et al. (2012) developed a very comprehensive widely accepted theoretical framework for the construct of primary teachers’ attitudes toward (the teaching of) science and invented DAS instrument (Dimensions of Attitudes Toward Science)

Fig.3 A conceptual framework for DAS (Dimensions of attitudes towards science) developed by Van Aalderen-Smeets, van der Molen & Asma (2012)
	Notably, instead of considering behaviour and behaviour intention as the third construct of the tripartite model, this framework has considered it as outcomes of overall subdimensions of attitudes. It has considered perceived control as the third dimension of the model, which derives from the theory of planned behaviour (Ajzen, 1991). According to Simonson and Maushak (1996), ‘When behaviours are more difficult to execute, a person needs to take control over needed resources in order to act’ (p.994). Hence, in this theoretical frame, control counts as an essential factor impacting the attitudes of a person.
	Within the field of integrated STEM education, research on teachers’ attitudes is relatively scarce. Al Salami et al. (2017) measured teachers’ attitudes toward interdisciplinary teaching and teamwork in the STEM teaching context. However, there was no explanation of the specific sub-dimensions of the attitude construct used as well as no conceptual definition of the term ‘interdisciplinary STEM’ implied. Also, Mobley (2015) developed an instrument to measure teachers’ attitudes to teach science in an integrated STEM framework; however, teachers’ self- efficacy was the only subdimension of attitudes measured. Besides, Keles, Kiremit and Aktamıs (2017) developed an attitude scale for STEM and STEM sub-titles, which measured pre-service teachers’ attitudes towards each STEM subject without taking into account’ integrated STEM concept’ and overall dimensions of attitudes. Although the abundance of literature advocating a shift in teaching practices towards student-centeredness and integrated STEM approaches, the development of evaluative frameworks and instruments have been a challenge (Linn and Gonlund, 2000), especially considering constant evolving concepts in the STEM education context.
